.TH CODA 1 "2026-04-12" "coda" "User Commands"
.
.SH NAME
coda, coda-dev \- OpenCode session and project manager
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B coda
.RI [ name \ [ dir ]]
.br
.B coda
.B ls
.br
.B coda
.B switch
.br
.B coda
.B serve
.RI [ port ]
.br
.B coda
.B auth
.br
.B coda
.B provider
.B status
.br
.B coda
.B project
.B start
.br
.B coda
.B project
.B start
.B \-\-repo
.I url
.RI [ name ]
.br
.B coda
.B project
.B start
.B \-\-new
.I repo-name
.RB [ \-\-message | \-m
.IR description ]
.br
.B coda
.B project
.B close
.RB [ \-\-delete ]
.br
.B coda
.B project
.B ls
.br
.B coda
.B feature
.B start
.I branch
.RI [ base-branch \ [ project-name ]]
.br
.B coda
.B feature
.B done
.I branch
.RI [ project-name ]
.br
.B coda
.B feature
.B ls
.br
.B coda
.B layout
.RI [ name ]
.br
.B coda
.B layout
.B apply
.I name
.br
.B coda
.B layout
.B ls
.br
.B coda
.B layout
.B show
.I name
.br
.B coda
.B layout
.B create
.I name
.RB [ \-\-snapshot ]
.br
.B coda
.B hooks
.RB [ ls | events | create | run ]
.br
.B coda
.B provider
.RB [ status | ls ]
.br
.B coda
.B watch
.RB [ start | stop | status ]
.br
.B coda
.B help
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B coda
and
.B coda-dev
are shell-function entrypoints that combine OpenCode AI agents, tmux persistent
sessions, and git worktrees into a single workflow.
Each project lives as a bare git repository with multiple worktrees — one per
branch — each with its own isolated OpenCode agent running in its own tmux session.
.PP
.B coda-dev
is the preferred rewrite-branch entrypoint when the new workflow must coexist
with an existing stable
.B coda
installation on the same machine.
It uses the same command surface but defaults to a distinct tmux session prefix
so the two environments do not collide.
.PP
All functions are sourced into the shell from
.IR shell-functions.sh .
Configuration is read from
.I .env
in the same directory.
.
.SH SUBCOMMANDS
.
.SS Session management
.
.TP
.B coda \fR[\fIname\fR] [\fIdir\fR]
Attach to an existing tmux session or create a new one running
.BR opencode (1).
.I name
defaults to the basename of the current directory.
.I dir
defaults to the current directory.
Session names are prefixed with
.B SESSION_PREFIX
(default:
.IR coda- ).
Passing a name that already includes the prefix is safe — it is stripped
automatically.
If already inside tmux, switches to the session rather than creating a nested
attach.
.
.TP
.B coda ls
List all active
.B coda
sessions (those whose names match
.BR SESSION_PREFIX ).
.
.TP
.B coda switch
Open an interactive
.BR fzf (1)
picker showing all tmux sessions.
The right pane shows a live preview of the last 30 lines of each session.
Press
.B Enter
to switch; press
.B Esc
to cancel.
Also available as
.B prefix\~+\~f
inside tmux.
.
.SS Headless mode
.
.TP
.B coda serve \fR[\fIport\fR]
Start
.B opencode serve
on
.I port
(or the next free port starting at
.BR OPENCODE_BASE_PORT ).
The permission policy is taken from
.B OPENCODE_HEADLESS_PERMISSION
(default:
.IR \[lq]{\[dq]*\[dq]:\[dq]allow\[dq]}\[rq] ,
which auto-approves all actions).
.sp
Once running, attach a TUI with:
.RS
.EX
opencode attach http://localhost:\fIport\fP
.EE
.RE
or submit tasks programmatically via the OpenCode HTTP API.
.
.SS Authentication
.
.TP
.B coda auth
Wire the active provider into OpenCode.
By default this uses
.B CODA_PROVIDER_MODE=claude-auth
and installs the
.B opencode-claude-auth
plugin so OpenCode can reuse the OAuth credentials written by
.BR "claude auth login" .
.sp
If
.B CODA_PROVIDER_MODE=cliproxyapi
, the command writes or updates a managed CLIProxyAPI provider block in the
resolved OpenCode config file instead.
If
.B CLIPROXYAPI_API_KEY
is set, it is also written into that managed provider block for proxy auth.
CLIProxyAPI itself remains an external service.
.
.SS Provider diagnostics
.
.TP
.B coda provider status
Show diagnostics for the active provider mode.
In
.B cliproxyapi
mode this reports the effective OpenCode config path, whether the managed
provider block is present, whether optional proxy auth is configured, and
probes the configured base URL, health URL, and models endpoint.
Missing config, unauthorized models access, and probe-only success are reported
separately so the output does not imply end-to-end runtime proof.
.
.SS Project management
.
.TP
.B coda project start
When run from inside a coda project directory (any worktree or the project
root), connects to an existing tmux session on the project's default branch
.RB ( main " or " master ).
If no active session is found, prints an error.
.
.TP
.B coda project start \-\-repo \fIurl\fR [\fIname\fR]
Clone
.I url
as a bare repository and create the initial
.B DEFAULT_BRANCH
worktree.
.I name
defaults to the repository basename.
The project is stored under
.IR PROJECTS_DIR / name /
with the following layout:
.RS
.EX
PROJECTS_DIR/name/
  .bare/        (all git objects)
  .git          (pointer: "gitdir: ./.bare")
  main/         (initial worktree)
.EE
.RE
If the project already exists, fetches the latest changes and shows current
worktrees instead.
.
.TP
.B coda project start \-\-new \fIrepo-name\fR [\fB\-\-message\fR|\fB\-m\fR \fIdescription\fR]
Create a new private repository under
.IR evanstern ,
bootstrap it from a local bare coda project, and push the initial commit.
.sp
If
.B \-\-message
is provided, the text is written to an
.B AGENTS.md
file in the repository root verbatim, intended as initial context for AI coding agents.
.sp
Requires the GitHub CLI
.RB ( gh )
to be installed and authenticated.
.
.TP
.B coda project close \fR[\fB\-\-delete\fR]
Close all active tmux sessions associated with the current project.
Must be run from inside a coda project directory (any worktree or the project
root).
.sp
By default, only tmux sessions are closed.
Use
.B \-\-delete
to also remove the entire project directory under
.BR PROJECTS_DIR ,
including the bare repository and all worktrees.
.sp
Teardown runs in a backgrounded subshell, so sessions or folders may take a
moment to disappear after the command returns.
.
.TP
.B coda project ls
List all coda-managed projects in
.BR PROJECTS_DIR .
.
.SS Feature worktrees
.
.TP
.B coda feature start \fIbranch\fR [\fIbase-branch\fR] [\fIproject-name\fR]
Create a new git worktree on a new branch and open an OpenCode tmux session
inside it.
Must be run from inside a project directory (any worktree or the project root).
.I base-branch
defaults to
.BR DEFAULT_BRANCH .
.I project-name
defaults to the project root directory basename.
.sp
If the worktree already exists, attaches to the existing session without
creating a duplicate.
.sp
Session name:
.IB SESSION_PREFIX project-name -- branch
.sp
Worktree path:
.IB PROJECTS_DIR / project / branch /
.
.TP
.B coda feature done \fIbranch\fR [\fIproject-name\fR]
Tear down a feature in three steps:
.RS
.IP 1. 3
Kill the tmux session.
.IP 2.
Remove the git worktree.
.IP 3.
Delete the local branch.
.RE
.sp
.B Warning:
the branch is deleted regardless of merge status.
Merge or push your changes before running this command.
.
.TP
.B coda feature finish \fR[\fB\-\-force\fR]
Agent-safe teardown of the current feature branch.
Detects the branch and project from the working directory (takes no arguments).
The teardown (kill session, remove worktree, delete branch) runs in a
backgrounded subshell so it completes even when called from within the session
being destroyed.
.sp
Refuses to proceed if there are uncommitted or untracked changes.
Use
.B \-\-force
to skip this check and tear down regardless.
.sp
Must be run from inside a feature worktree (not the default branch).
.
.TP
.B coda feature ls
Run
.B git worktree list
for the project root detected from the current directory.
.
.SS Tmux layouts
.
.TP
.B coda layout \fR[\fIname\fR]
Apply a tmux layout to the current session.
Creates new window(s) with the pane arrangement defined by the layout, all
starting in the session's base directory (the worktree root for feature
branches).
Equivalent to
.BR "coda layout apply" .
.sp
Must be run from inside a tmux session.
If the session was created by
.BR coda ,
the working directory is read from the
.B CODA_DIR
tmux environment variable; otherwise falls back to the current pane's path.
.
.TP
.B coda layout apply \fIname\fR
Explicit form of
.BR "coda layout" .
.
.TP
.B coda layout ls
List all available layouts from both the built-in
.I layouts/
directory and the user directory
.RB ( CODA_LAYOUTS_DIR ).
Shows the current default layout.
.
.TP
.B coda layout show \fIname\fR
Print the layout file contents, including the pane diagram and tmux commands.
.
.TP
.B coda layout create \fIname\fR [\fB\-\-snapshot\fR]
Create a new layout in
.BR CODA_LAYOUTS_DIR .
Without flags, creates a commented template with example
.B tmux split-window
and
.B tmux send-keys
patterns for building custom pane arrangements.
.sp
With
.BR \-\-snapshot ,
captures the current tmux window's pane arrangement, dimensions, commands,
and titles into a working layout file.
Must be run from inside a tmux session.
Pane commands are detected from
.B pane_start_command
(the command used when the pane was created).
Pane titles are included when they are short, clean labels (e.g. set via
.BR "select-pane -T" ).
.sp
Built-in layouts:
.RS
.TP
.B default
Single pane running
.BR opencode .
.TP
.B wide-twopane
Two side-by-side panes:
.B opencode
(left) and
.B nvim
(right).
.TP
.B classic
Single pane running
.BR opencode
(alias for the original behaviour).
.TP
.B three-pane
.B opencode
(top-left),
.B nvim
(top-right), shell (bottom).
.RE
.
.SS Session watcher
.
.TP
.B coda watch
.TQ
.B coda watch start
Start the background session watcher.
Polls all active
.B coda
sessions every
.B CODA_WATCH_INTERVAL
seconds (default: 5).
When an OpenCode instance finishes processing and begins waiting for input, the
watcher sends a terminal bell (BEL) to every attached tmux client and displays a
status-bar message identifying the session.
.sp
The bell propagates through mosh to your local terminal, which triggers an
OS-native notification (supported by Ghostty, iTerm2, Kitty, and most modern
terminal emulators).
.sp
The watcher runs in its own tmux session named
.BR coda-watcher .
.
.TP
.B coda watch stop
Stop the watcher by killing the
.B coda-watcher
tmux session.
.
.TP
.B coda watch status
Print whether the watcher is running and when it was started.
.
.SS Profiles
.
.TP
.B coda profile ls
List available profiles.
.
.TP
.B coda profile create \fIname\fR
Create a new profile in
.BR CODA_PROFILES_DIR .
Profiles are
.I .env
files that can override
.BR CODA_LAYOUT ,
.BR CODA_NVIM_APPNAME ,
.BR CODA_PROVIDER_MODE ,
.BR CODA_HOOKS_DIR ,
.BR CODA_WATCH_INTERVAL ,
and
.BR CODA_WATCH_COOLDOWN .
.
.TP
.B coda profile show \fIname\fR
Print the contents of a profile.
.
.SS Hooks
.
.TP
.B coda hooks events
List all supported lifecycle hook events with descriptions.
.
.TP
.B coda hooks ls \fR[\fIevent\fR]
List installed hook scripts. Optionally filter by event name.
Shows source (user/builtin) and executable status.
.
.TP
.B coda hooks create \fIevent\fR \fIname\fR
Scaffold a new hook script in
.BR CODA_HOOKS_DIR .
The template includes the environment variables available for that event.
.
.TP
.B coda hooks run \fIevent\fR
Manually trigger all hooks for an event (useful for debugging).
.
.PP
Hooks are executable scripts in event directories. User hooks
.RI ( CODA_HOOKS_DIR )
are checked before builtin hooks. Scripts run in sorted order.
Failures are reported but never block core operations.
.
.PP
Supported events:
.BR pre-session-create ,
.BR post-session-create ,
.BR post-session-attach ,
.BR post-project-create ,
.BR post-project-clone ,
.BR pre-project-close ,
.BR post-feature-create ,
.BR pre-feature-teardown ,
.BR post-feature-finish ,
.BR post-layout-apply .
.
.SS Providers
.
.TP
.B coda provider ls
List available provider plugins from both user and builtin directories.
Shows which provider is currently active.
.
.PP
Providers are directory-based plugins. Each provider contains
.I auth.sh
and
.IR status.sh .
User providers in
.B CODA_PROVIDERS_DIR
override builtins of the same name.
.
.SS Notifications
.
.PP
The watcher runs notification plugins when an OpenCode pane transitions from
processing to idle. Plugins are executable scripts in
.B CODA_NOTIFICATIONS_DIR
(user) or the builtin
.I notifications/
directory. The default
.I bell.sh
sends a terminal bell to all connected tmux clients.
.
.SS Help
.
.TP
.B coda help
Print a short usage summary.
.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is read from
.I .env
in the
.B coda
directory (created from
.I .env.example
on first
.BR install.sh\ run ).
All variables can also be set in the environment before sourcing
.IR shell-functions.sh .
.
.TS
l l l.
Variable	Default	Description
_
PROJECTS_DIR	~/projects	Root dir for repos
SESSION_PREFIX	coda-	tmux session name prefix
DEFAULT_BRANCH	main	Branch for new worktrees
GIT_REMOTE	origin	Git remote name
OPENCODE_BASE_PORT	4096	First port for \fBcoda serve\fR
OPENCODE_PORT_RANGE	10	Ports to scan
CODA_PROVIDER_MODE	claude-auth	Provider mode for \fBcoda auth\fR
CLIPROXYAPI_BASE_URL	http://localhost:8317/v1	CLIProxyAPI base URL for the managed provider
CLIPROXYAPI_API_KEY	empty	Optional proxy API key for cliproxy model probes and managed provider auth
CLIPROXYAPI_HEALTH_URL	empty	Optional health endpoint for \fBcoda provider status\fR; skipped when unset
CODA_OPENCODE_CONFIG_PATH	empty	Optional OpenCode config override; also exported as \fBOPENCODE_CONFIG\fR when set
DEFAULT_LAYOUT	default	Default tmux layout
CODA_LAYOUTS_DIR	~/.config/coda/layouts	User layout directory
CODA_PROFILES_DIR	~/.config/coda/profiles	User profile directory
CODA_HOOKS_DIR	~/.config/coda/hooks	User hook scripts directory
CODA_PROVIDERS_DIR	~/.config/coda/providers	User provider plugins directory
CODA_NOTIFICATIONS_DIR	~/.config/coda/notifications	User notification plugins directory
CLAUDE_CREDENTIALS_PATH	~/.claude/.credentials.json	Path to Claude credentials file
NEW_PROJECT_GITHUB_OWNER	empty	GitHub user/org for \fB--new\fR (required)
CODA_WATCH_INTERVAL	5	Watcher poll interval (seconds)
CODA_WATCH_COOLDOWN	60	Min seconds between repeat notifications
OPENCODE_HEADLESS_PERMISSION	{"*":"allow"}	Permission policy for serve
AUTO_ATTACH_TMUX	true	Auto-attach on SSH login
DEFAULT_TMUX_SESSION	default	Session name for auto-attach
.TE
.
.SS Per-project configuration
.PP
Place a
.I .coda.env
file in a project's worktree root to override settings for that project.
Supported variables:
.BR CODA_LAYOUT ,
.BR CODA_NVIM_APPNAME ,
.BR CODA_PROVIDER_MODE ,
.BR CODA_HOOKS_DIR ,
.BR CODA_WATCH_INTERVAL ,
.BR CODA_WATCH_COOLDOWN .
.
.PP
Precedence (lowest to highest): built-in defaults, .env, .coda.env, profile,
environment variable, CLI flag.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.
.SS First-time setup
.EX
\&./install.sh
sudo tailscale up
source ~/.bashrc

# Claude path
claude auth login
coda auth

# CLIProxyAPI path
# edit .env: CODA_PROVIDER_MODE=cliproxyapi
# edit .env: CLIPROXYAPI_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8317/v1
# edit .env: CLIPROXYAPI_API_KEY=...   (optional, if your proxy requires auth)
coda auth
coda provider status
.EE
.
.SS Clone a project and start working
.EX
coda project start --repo git@github.com:user/myapp.git
cd ~/projects/myapp/main
coda
.EE
.
.SS Create a new project from scratch
.EX
coda project start --new my-tool -m "CLI for managing widgets"
.EE
.
.SS Feature branch workflow
.EX
cd ~/projects/myapp/main
coda feature start auth
# ... give OpenCode a task inside the session ...
coda ls
coda switch
coda feature done auth
.EE
.
.SS Apply a layout to a running session
.EX
coda attach myapp--auth
coda layout wide-twopane
coda layout ls
coda layout create my-custom
.EE
.
.SS Running multiple agents in parallel
.EX
cd ~/projects/myapp/main
coda feature start auth
coda feature start payments
coda feature start docs
coda switch          # pick one to check on
.EE
.
.SS Headless background work
.EX
coda serve           # starts on first free port
opencode attach http://localhost:4096
.EE
.
.SS Monitoring sessions for attention
.EX
coda watch               # start the watcher
coda watch status        # check if running
coda watch stop          # stop when done
.EE
.
.SS Sending tasks from the command line (no attach needed)
.EX
tmux send-keys -t coda-myapp--auth \e
    "Add rate limiting to the login endpoint" Enter
tmux capture-pane -t coda-myapp--auth -p | tail -20
.EE
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/coda/shell-functions.sh
Shell functions sourced into bash or zsh.
.TP
.I ~/coda/.env
Local configuration (git-ignored).
.TP
.I ~/coda/.env.example
Configuration template.
.TP
.I ~/coda/layouts/
Built-in tmux layout scripts.
.TP
.I ~/.config/coda/layouts/
User-created tmux layout scripts (override built-ins of the same name).
.TP
.I ~/.config/coda/profiles/
User-created profile files.
.TP
.I ~/coda/completions/coda.bash
Bash tab-completion script.
.TP
.I ~/coda/completions/coda.zsh
Zsh tab-completion script.
.TP
.I ~/.tmux.conf
tmux configuration (installed by
.BR install.sh ).
.TP
.I ~/.config/opencode/tui.json
OpenCode TUI keybind configuration (installed by
.BR install.sh ).
.TP
.I ~/.claude/.credentials.json
Claude Code OAuth credentials (written by
.BR "claude auth login" ).
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
In addition to the
.I .env
variables listed under
.BR CONFIGURATION ,
the following environment variables influence behaviour:
.TP
.B TMUX
If set, indicates the shell is already inside a tmux session.
.B coda
uses
.B switch-client
instead of
.B attach
when this is set.
.TP
.B SSH_CONNECTION
If set (i.e. the shell was started via SSH), and
.B AUTO_ATTACH_TMUX=true
and
.B TMUX
is unset,
.B coda
auto-attaches to
.B DEFAULT_TMUX_SESSION
on shell start.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR opencode (1),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR git-worktree (1),
.BR fzf (1),
.BR mosh (1),
.BR tailscale (1)
.
.SH BUGS
Report issues at https://github.com/evanstern/coda
